Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a crime-drama film called, "Ms. .45,”
which shows how the horrors of an uncaring and
exploitative world can make a good woman turn bad.
Also known as, ‘Angel of Vengeance’, this
aptly titled movie follows the story of a
silent vigilante blurring the violent
lines between revenge and retribution.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
‘Are you the prey or are you the hunter?’
The answer to this question shapes the way
a person’s life unfolds. But when the hunter
becomes the hunted and the prey becomes the
predator, it becomes the world’s problem, too.
In a garment factory in Manhattan, a mute, young
seamstress named Thana heads home after a day of
work. While walking, Thana and her friends are
pestered by some vulgar men, but they ignore
them as they head to a bar. Though her friends
try inviting her for some drinks, Thana politely
refuses and goes to a supermarket instead.
After shopping for meat in a grocery store,
Thana is walking home when suddenly, a heinous man
viciously grabs her. He pulls her to a back alley,
and there, he forces himself onto her. Once
the disgusting man was done, Thana lies by the
trash bin, traumatized. Mustering her remaining
strength, a drained Thana returns home and sits
down by her couch to recuperate from her crushing
incident. Already, it’s clear that Thana and her
friends are navigating an environment that treats
them as little more than meat to be consumed.
From the way they’ve been ogled at and catcalled
with every step of the way, many of the men around
them just make the streets uncomfortable for
them to travel. To Thana’s friends, they were
little more than a nuisance, but to Thana,
these men became a real and tangible danger.
The unnerving thing is, it didn’t have to be
just Thana. Any lone woman could have taken
her place and suffered the same tragedy as her.
But just when it feels like Thana’s day couldn’t
get worse, it did. Thana is suddenly confronted
by a burglar, who threatens to kill her if she
dares scream. Despite his demands for money,
Thana is unable to speak, annoying the burglar.
But he soon realizes that she's mute, and upon
noticing her torn clothes, he decides to take
advantage of her. The burglar lays Thana on the
floor as he shamelessly forces himself on her,
repeating the evils that Thana just experienced
earlier. At first, Thana could only lie helplessly
on the floor while the burglar continues, but in
a bout of quick thinking, she grabs a glass ball
near her. Hearing the burglar drop his gun, Thana
immediately strikes him, making him fall to the
floor. Thana quickly gets up and picks up an iron
before smashing it against the burglar's head.
Dazed, Thana pulls the burglar to her bathtub.
As she struggles with it, she suddenly hears
a dog barking outside. She quickly fixes her
apartment, hides the bloody iron under the couch,
then covers herself up. Finally, she cautiously
checks outside to see if anyone's there.
After finding no one outside, Thana falls
to the ground in a mix of fear and relief.
After being forced into one soul-crushing evil
after another, it’s almost a wonder how Thana can
still pick herself up and fight against her second
assailant. Unfortunately, that’s the world Thana
lives in, and she has no other choice but to fight
and even kill to survive. Naturally, being the
victim of a harrowing crime can change a person,
but killing, even if in self-defense, can also
have that effect. But the ironic thing is, Thana
killed the burglar with an iron—something that’s
closely associated with women in the household.
The next day in the garment factory, Thana's boss,
Albert, scolds one of the workers there, scaring
the other women inside. After looking at a trash
bag, an idea strikes Thana, and she freezes in
shock, alarming her co-workers. As they ask her
how she's feeling, Thana tries nodding at them,
but she soon zones out with memories from the
previous night still haunting her. After work,
Thana heads home again and immediately goes to the
bathroom. She saws the burglar's body apart before
stuffing the pieces inside trash bags, which she
then hides in her fridge. Afterwards, Thana
cleans up her bathroom, removing the evidence
of her brutal attacker. Once she's finished,
Thana stares at herself in the mirror, still
clearly traumatized from everything that happened.
Suddenly, she hears water coming from the drain,
so she checks on it. There, she realizes that bits
of the burglar's flesh are clogging up the drain.
But Thana just heads to bed and rests for
the night. The next morning, Thana leaves
the apartment to throw the dismembered
body into a trash bin along the streets.
With that, she heads to work. There’s some poetic
justice to be had with the way the burglar’s body
has been chopped into pieces and disposed of as
if it were meat. In the beginning, it was Thana
and her friends who were being treated like meat
on display. Now, the burglar is being treated with
the same disregard and brutality. In the garment
factory, Thana irons a dress before she zones out.
Still remembering the horrors of the other
night's ordeal, she accidentally burns the dress.
Albert comes to check on her, but
Thana dismisses his attempts to help.
A few hours later, a heckler tries picking up some
girls along the streets but is constantly ignored.
Feeling hopeless, he desperately tries looking
for more when he suddenly spots Thana getting
off a taxi. Thana quickly walks, dropping
a bag of the burglar's body on the streets,
and the heckler notices this. He then follows her
and tries to return the bag to her. Panicking,
Thana runs away while the man chases her along the
streets. But eventually, Thana reaches a dead end,
leaving her fearful of getting violated again.
As the heckler makes his way to her to return the
bag, Thana quickly gets out the .45 pistol
that she got from the burglar. She shoots
the heckler with it, killing him instantly.
Thana frantically returns home, vomiting as
she thinks about how she committed her second
murder. Suddenly, her neighbor, Ms. Nasone,
quickly knocks at her door, asking if she's fine.
Thana answers the door, so she can nod to let
Mrs. Nasone know that she's okay. Unconvinced,
Mrs. Nasone tries to get a doctor for Thana,
but she refuses before escorting Mrs. Nasone
out of her apartment. Later that night, Thana
nervously shifts in her bed as she dreams of the
traumatic things that happened to her. Now, the
extent of Thana’s trauma is unfolding. Not only is
she ceaselessly haunted by the despicable ways in
which she was violated, she is now unable to trust
the men who approach her. Even though the heckler
may not have been looking to force himself on her,
she still can’t afford to lower her guard because
she must have felt that the world had already
punished her for doing just that. At this point,
Thana can only trust herself and her .45 pistol.
The next day, a homeless man in the streets tries
rummaging for food in a trash bin. While searching
around the bin, he suddenly shrieks in horror as
he finds one of the burglar's hands in a bag
that Thana threw away. Meanwhile, in the office,
Albert speaks with Thana. He expresses his concern
over Thana's dwindling efforts with their clothing
line. Calmly, Albert asks her to get back on
track with her work, adding that she should
be more like her co-workers. He then invites her
over for a Halloween party to help her calm down.
In response, Thana writes a note to Albert,
telling him that she'll try before leaving
his office. Afterwards, her friend, Carol,
asks her why Albert called her to his office,
but Thana replies through a note that she
wants to be left alone. Understanding Thana,
Carol looks at her reassuringly before they
go out for lunch with some of her co-workers.
In the restaurant, Thana and her friends
are enjoying their meals when suddenly,
a man named Rich Volk tries introducing himself to
them. One of her co-workers, Laurie, rudely sways
Rich off before she and her friends head out,
leaving Thana alone in the restaurant. These women
really can’t catch a break. Even when they’re just
minding their own business and eating together,
they’d still come across people like Rich,
who feel entitled to their time and attention.
While approaching people isn’t a crime, there’s
still something to be said about how the men in
this story are barely giving the women any room
to breathe without getting hounded. After fixing
her things, Thana leaves as well, and she heads
over to the pedestrian crossing. Rich follows her,
and he apologizes for his earlier actions
before introducing himself. Thana tries to walk
away from him, but Rich continues to pester her,
bragging about his job as a fashion photographer
before inviting her over to his studio. Thana is
reluctant to join him, but she eventually agrees
to go. The two then go to Rich's condominium,
where they take the elevator to the studio.
Upon their arrival, Rich heads inside alone while
Thana abruptly takes out her gun. She coldly
shoots Rich then leaves him all alone in the
studio as she heads back home. Later that night,
Thana puts heavy makeup on herself, contrasting
how she usually looks before heading out again
for the city. From there, Thana wreaks a bloodbath
around town. She saves an escort from a violent
pimp, kills a gang of thieves, and even shoots a
wealthy Sheik. It's a night of havoc in Manhattan,
and Thana has taken her self-construed
justice into her own hands as a vigilante.
But above all, Thana has taken the role of an
Angel of Vengeance using the very weapon of her
own assailant—that .45 pistol. In every step
of the way, the men who hurt her are the ones
compelling Thana and giving her the ability to
kill. Her using that pistol can be the image of
her reclaiming her power, or it’s the image of
her still shackled and trapped by her anguish.
Either way, it’s the gun that helps her
perpetuate a cycle of worldly violence.
The next morning, Thana coldly washes the blood
away from her hands before hearing Mrs. Nasone's
dog barking rapidly. Annoyed, Thana comes
up with a solution for the dog's barking.
She grinds some of the burglar's meat from the
fridge before giving it to Mrs. Nasone as she
listens to the news of last night's killspree. A
few hours later, Thana heads out, and she disposes
of some of the burglar's body parts again on her
way to the factory. In his office, Albert scolds
Thana for not returning to work the previous day,
which worried him and the rest of her co-workers.
Thana sheepishly listens to Albert's tirades,
and he's disappointed that she isn't even going
to the Halloween party. But Thana cuts him off,
writing a note saying that she wants to go.
Amused, Albert invites Thana to the party
as his partner, and Thana coldly accepts.
Shortly after, Albert and Thana join the rest of
their co-workers as they watch Laurie hook up with
a man. The group laughs at the sight, amused
by Laurie's intensity, while Albert and Thana
share seductive looks. Later that night, Thana
goes around the city again in search of her next
victims. While waiting inside a phone booth, Thana
spots a man making out with his girlfriend before
he leaves for home. Thana follows the man to his
apartment and prepares to shoot him. However, the
man enters his home, leaving a disappointed Thana
outside. The more Thana unravels, the more evident
it is that she’s no longer doing this for justice.
Her crusade against the men of Manhattan has
turned into a crusade of contempt and vengeance.
Perhaps her resentment has grown so strong that
she started believing that all men are deserving
of death. Maybe she’s trying to keep the high of
finally being the predator in a society that keeps
putting her on the lowest rung of the echelon. No
matter what Thana’s reasoning is, Thana’s just out
for blood now, and there’s barely a justification
for this. Still in search of a target, Thana
moves to a bar and sits beside a man there. He
blabbers on about his life with his wife and job
while Thana fakes interest in the man's stories.
Soon, they sit on a nearby bench outside the bar.
With a lost look in his eyes, the man recounts
almost robotically how he caught his wife with
another woman. He talks about brushing his teeth,
changing his clothes, and finally, he talks about
strangling his wife's cat. Upon hearing this,
wide-eyed Thana slowly raises her gun towards
the man, but he quickly takes the gun from her.
He asks her if she's joking before cocking the
weapon and aiming it at his head. The two share
some intense seconds of silence, just staring
at each other until the man eventually shoots
himself dead. In a panic, Thana quickly rushes
home. Though the man and Thana have completely
incomparable experiences and baggage, they’re
both hurt and listless people. His wife’s cat
was innocent, but he still chose to strangle it,
presumably to hurt his wife because he couldn’t
hurt her directly. Or he strangled it to let
his pain and anguish be known. Or, even simpler,
he strangled the cat because he had all those
emotions festering in him with no other outlet.
No matter what his reason was, he
wasn’t all that different from Thana.
The next morning, Thana is walking along the
stairs when Mrs. Nasone's dog growls at her after
sensing her presence. But Thana shrugs it off
and ignores the dog to head inside her apartment.
There, she removes her disguise and fixes her
apartment up before placing the last of the
burglar's body parts into a bag for disposal.
Thana then leaves through the fire exit before
Mrs. Nasone suddenly enters the apartment with
her dog. The dog sniffs around, standing by a
locked door and making Mrs. Nasone run out to get
the keys. However, Mrs. Nasone's dog accidentally
bumps into a drawer, causing one of Thana's
vases to fall to the ground. Hearing this,
Mrs. Nasone quickly returns to Thana's apartment
and fixes her dog's mess before leaving.
Meanwhile, in the garment factory, Albert rewards
the workers by giving them the afternoon off to
prepare for their Halloween party that night.
Later that day, Thana returns home and asks
Mrs. Nasone if she could walk her dog. With Mrs.
Nasone's reluctant blessing, Thana heads out to
try and get rid of it. She tries getting the
dog run over by some cars to no avail. Then,
she heads to a nearby port, where she ties the
dog by a pole. She proceeds to aim her gun at it.
Back in the apartment, she leaves a letter for
Mrs. Nasone, telling her that her dog ran away,
before preparing for the party. Though it
isn’t made clear if Thana shot the dog or not,
it’s apparent that her increasingly flippant
attitude towards murder has extended beyond
victimizing men of varying innocence. By
pointing her gun at the dog, it’s as if Thana is
starting to use her weapon as the answer to the
hurdles and inconveniences she’s experiencing.
After putting on her nun costume, Thana loads
her gun, and she kisses the bullets one by one.
She then stands in front of a mirror, pretending
to shoot. Night comes, and Thana and Albert arrive
at the party together before making their
way to their co-workers. Albert mingles
around with the people at the party, and
he keeps telling them about his partner,
Thana. With the crowd dancing to the lively
music, Albert and Thana sneak into a nearby room.
There, Albert gently kisses parts of
Thana's body, down to her leg and foot.
When he lifts her skirt, Albert is shocked to
find a gun hidden near her thigh. The jig is up,
and Thana shoots Albert, alarming the whole
party. In an anticlimactic turn of events,
Thana’s most glaring victim is not her first
assailant. It’s not even a man who’s been
going around violating women and enacting violence
upon their unwilling bodies. It’s just her boss,
a painfully plain man whose misgivings are
berating his employees and constantly trying
to get with Thana. And though Thana’s clearly not
in any sound state of mind, this can be her own
way of fighting against the daily transgressions
she’s been put through. After all, harm isn’t
always something grotesque and macabre; the harm
most people face is more sinister and nebulous.
Some of the men try to check the two, but Thana
unflinchingly shoots them as she walks down some
stairs. Once she's there, she carefully
shoots the men one by one in the crowd.
Thana continues her violent burst without remorse,
targeting all the men there relentlessly before
Laurie suddenly reacts. She grabs a nearby knife,
and with that, she stabs Thana in the back.
As Thana screams in pain, she looks back in shock
to find Laurie there. Thana could only whisper
the word, ‘sister’ as she falls to her doom.
Meanwhile, in Thana's apartment, Mrs. Nasone
returns and opens Thana's locked door. When she
walks inside the room, Mrs. Nasone carefully
sneaks around, searching for whatever Thana
is hiding before taking one of the bags there.
Suddenly, the door creaks, alarming Mrs. Nasone.
She then calls out to the person outside,
asking if it's Thana before her neighbor comes
inside, clad in a gorilla suit. This surprises
Mrs. Nasone, and the two eventually leave Thana's
place. When Mrs. Nasone returns to her apartment,
she immediately opens Thana's bag and screams in
horror as she uncovers the burglar's severed head.
In a rush, she frantically makes her call
to the police to tell them of Thana's crime.
The police then give her a visit, and Mrs.
Nasone dramatically talks about how Thana must
have killed her beloved dog while her gorilla-suit
neighbor comforts her. When the police are gone,
Mrs. Nasone is left alone in grief. However,
as Mrs. Nasone cries, her dog suddenly
returns to their home, barking at the door.
After being violated by her two assailants, no man
has come close to harming Thana again. With her
pistol, she was practically untouchable, and it
almost felt as if no man can ever take her down.
And that’s correct, because Thana’s undoing was
brought by two women and herself. It was a cruel
and twisted irony, but with how Thana had fallen
off any just and moral standing, it’s become a
comeuppance against her. Thana was the prey who
turned into a hunter, not just against the vile,
but against anyone resembling the perceived evil.
This only goes to show that the story is not meant
to empower; it’s not even about retribution. The
tale is about Thana’s unrelenting vengeance
and her perpetuating a cycle of violence.
With the .45 pistol that once belonged to the
burglar, it’s almost as if Thana is killing her
victims in the burglar’s proxy. It’s the wretched
effect he had on Thana, seeping through her and
damning every man around her. Though unapparent
at first glance, this is also a cautionary tale
about how one’s act of evil can affect even
those who they never came into contact with.